Create feature-gates docs page (#4140)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: src/kubernetes-ingress-controller/references/feature-gates.md

---
title: Feature Gates
---

> Upstream [Kubernetes][k8s] includes [feature gates][gates] to enable or disable features with flags and track the maturity of a feature using [feature stages][stages]. Here in the Kubernetes Ingress Controller (KIC) we use the same definitions of `feature gates` and `feature stages` from upstream Kubernetes to define our own list of features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upstream [Kubernetes][k8s] includes [feature gates][gates], which enable or disable features with flags and track the maturity of a feature using [feature stages][stages]. Here in the Kubernetes Ingress Controller (KIC), we use the same definitions of `feature gates` and `feature stages` from upstream Kubernetes to define our own list of features.
```

> Using feature gates enables contributors to add and manage new (and potentially experimental) functionality to the KIC in a controlled manner: the features will be "hidden" until generally available (GA) and the progress and maturity of features on their path to GA will be documented. Feature gates also create a clear path for deprecating features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using feature gates enables contributors to add and manage new (and potentially experimental) functionality to the KIC in a controlled manner. The features will be "hidden" until generally available (GA) and the progress and maturity of features on their path to GA will be documented. Feature gates also create a clear path for deprecating features.
```

See below for current features and their statuses, and follow the links to the relevant feature documentation:

* [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io)
* [Kubernetes feature gates](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
* [Feature stages](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/#feature-stages)

## Feature gates for alpha and beta features

> Features that reach GA and become stable will be removed from this table, they can be found in the main [KIC CRD documentation][specs] and [guides][guides]. This table is an overview of features at various maturity levels:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Features that reach GA and become stable are removed from this table, but they can be found in the main [KIC CRD documentation][specs] and [guides][guides]. This table is an overview of features at various maturity levels:
```

| Feature                | Default | Stage | Since | Until |
|------------------------|---------|-------|-------|-------|
| Knative                | `true`  | Alpha | 0.8.0 | TBD   |
| Gateway                | `false` | Alpha | 2.2.0 | TBD   |
| CombinedRoutes         | `false` | Alpha | 2.4.0 | TBD   |
| IngressClassParameters | `false` | Alpha | 2.6.0 | TBD   |

### Feature gates details

- The **since** and **until** rows in the table refer to [KIC Releases][releases].

> - For `GA` features the documentation exists in the main [Kong documentation][kong-docs], see the [API reference][specs] and [guides][kic-guides].

Reviewer: This could probably be removed since it's mentioned in the previous section?

> - For `GA` features the documentation exists in the main [Kong documentation][kong-docs], see the [API reference][specs] and [guides][kic-guides].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> - Most features will be planned using [Kubernetes Enhancement Proposals (KEP)][k8s-keps]: If you're interested in developing features familiarize yourself with our [KEPs][kic-keps].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Most features will be planned using [Kubernetes Enhancement Proposals (KEP)][k8s-keps]. If you're interested in developing features, familiarize yourself with our [KEPs][kic-keps].
```

> - Features that are currently in alpha or beta states may become deprecated at any time. Deprecated features will be removed during the next minor release. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Features that are currently in alpha or beta states may become deprecated at any time. Deprecated features are removed during the next minor release. 
```

> - Until a feature becomes GA there are no guarantees that it's going to continue being available, for more information read the [changelog](https://github.com/Kong/kubernetes-ingress-controller/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Until a feature becomes GA, there are no guarantees that it's going to continue being available. For more information, see the [changelog](https://github.com/Kong/kubernetes-ingress-controller/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).
```

{:.important}
>**Important:** To avoid disruption to your services consider not using features until they have reached GA status. 

### Documentation

> If you're looking for documentation for alpha maturity features you can find feature preview documentation ini the [kubernetes-ingress-controller repository](https://github.com/Kong/kubernetes-ingress-controller/blob/main/FEATURE_PREVIEW_DOCUMENTATION.md)..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find feature preview documentation for alpha maturity features in the [kubernetes-ingress-controller repository](https://github.com/Kong/kubernetes-ingress-controller/blob/main/FEATURE_PREVIEW_DOCUMENTATION.md)..
```

> Once a feature graduates from alpha to beta maturity the preview docs will be moved to the main [Kong documentation][kong-docs].

Reviewer: I think this can be removed since it was mentioned previously?

> Once a feature graduates from alpha to beta maturity the preview docs will be moved to the main [Kong documentation][kong-docs].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

[k8s-keps]:https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements
[kic-keps]:https://github.com/Kong/kubernetes-ingress-controller/tree/main/keps
[releases]:https://github.com/Kong/kubernetes-ingress-controller/releases
[kong-docs]:https://github.com/Kong/docs.konghq.com
[api-ref]: /kubernetes-ingress-controller/latest/references/custom-resources/
[kic-guides]: /kubernetes-ingress-controller/latest/guides/overview/

### Documentation

If you're looking for documentation for `Alpha` maturity features you can find feature preview documentation the [kubernetes-ingress-controller repository](https://github.com/Kong/kubernetes-ingress-controller/blob/main/FEATURE_PREVIEW_DOCUMENTATION.md)..

Once a feature graduates from `Alpha` to `Beta` maturity these preview docs will be moved to the main [Kong documentation][kong-docs].

[kong-docs]:https://github.com/kong/docs.konghq.com

### Feature gates for graduated or deprecated features

> | Feature                    | Default | Stage      | Since | Until |
> |----------------------------|---------|------------|-------|-------|

Reviewer 3: Why is this table empty? If we must have a table, then need some placeholder rows so it doesn't break the markdown:

```suggestion
| Feature                    | Default | Stage      | Since | Until |
|----------------------------|---------|------------|-------|-------|
| None                           |         |            |       |       |
```

Author: Empty table was a typo 😨 , fixed.
